and
i'll go ahead and well before i go to your children
i'd like to ask a little bit more about these lands
you you say that that after a while the people who
were working them just never Oh, said anything
from them. That's right. And your aunts and uncles
then began to try to get them back? Oh, yes. My aunt,
,, tried to get rid of us. Well, I think she took too
long. That's what I understand. They probably
thought, well, we'll do it Sunday. But they got to a
point that time passed, and they never did
anything about it until it was too late. Like, for
instance, the people that took over the lands got
old, and their sons took over. So some of these
people had already died, the first people that
kept them. So these new people, they wouldn't
recognize anybody, because they'd probably say,
well, we've been here so long, and 90% is the
precision of the law, so it's ours. They probably
got papers on it too, you know. That's why she never
could do anything about it. But I think they waited
too long to do anything about it. So they didn't
really start trying to do anything until about
1931, which is when these papers were. Yes, that's
when my father was going to take charge of it. And
try to get the right back for him. That's right. And
then from then on, several years passed when he
tried it again, when Santa Clarita tried it, and it
was already too late. Well, you can see in this
part, one of the, one, Simon Parra, was, was saying
that it would be all right for him. He was one of the,
one that stayed with the land. He was taking care of
it. Simone. Parra. No, he was a neighbor of my
father or something. He had the same, was he a
cousin? Parra, no. No, because it's the same. No,
Porras. Oh, Porras. I see. Parra is a different
name. Parra is a different name. All right. And so
this document says, in effect, could you just sort
of read that in English? Roughly. Say more or less
what it says in English. This man, Simone Parra,
was going to send my aunts what they can and he was
going to take care of the ranches and tell them once
in a while that he was going to send money and he was
going to pay the Texas over there and he was in
charge. That's why this document was made so they
agreed for him to stay over there so he could send
something. But as the year passed by, they forgot
all about it and they knew something about
anything. And that's why this was the last thing
they did. He agreed to Some money to them. So in
1931, he actually, this man, Simon Bada, actually
agreed that he was renting and that he would send
them some money. So he accepted their ownership in
that year. In that year. But then nothing ever came
up. Well, my aunt cried hard afterwards, too. It
was in 1945.
No, later than that. Later than that. Here, you can
see a map with more... Is that the sketch?
Something about kilometers and the ranches of
Fernando Leal. The ones that stayed on those parts
of the ranches. Alvarez, Ornones, Juarez, Miguel
Barra, Fernando Zambrano. See? So these are
people who stayed on the land. And eventually,
they and their heirs took it over. Oh, yes, they
did. Now, did they all stay in Mexico? Or did any of
them come to the States? I think they all stayed
over there in Mexico. They did. I believe none of
those, I don't think any of those people actually
lived, no one lived very long, or after your Tia
Leta was trying to get the land back, none of them
were living. No, I think they were all. Yeah, only
their sons, their heirs were. And their heirs
would never get them up. So I don't know. She had a
lot of things, a lot of people, and I think they're
all were over there. Here's another one, 1944.
Now
they even tried to say that they were the owners of
the land, see? Instead of my hands. Because Estos
Señores Se Basan, they were talking about the
titulos, que they already expired from my aunt, so
she didn't have contra la ley. They have a law in
Mexico, I don't understand very clearly, but I
think that if a piece of land is abandoned, And
after so many years, nobody lays claim to them.
That person, any person, can go and they call it
denunciar. I don't know what that word would mean
in English. To denounce. Denounce or something
like that. That's right. And they in turn, if it's
publicized in papers or someone, if nobody turns
up, Claiming the land, now they could give title to
it. And that it would be a clear title. And after
years, if somebody went, well, you're sitting on
my land. Sorry, you didn't claim the knowledge.
When there was time. Yeah, when there was time. I
think actually that's what they did. After so many
years that nobody went to lay claim to them, they
took over. And this is what my father used to do.
This was his mines. This is
his map that he actually made when he was going down
into the mines in 1920.
Did you ever find out why he didn't move back to
Mexico since he was doing so much of his work in
Mexico? Well, he was doing all right here. I don't
see why he would have to go over there. Maybe he
liked it. He liked it. I know he did. He did. Did he
speak both English and Spanish? Well, he used to
read a lot of English, but he couldn't speak
English. But he could write it and understand
Spanish and Latin. Now, you learned to read and
write in Spanish. Where did you learn to read and
write in Spanish? Here. Here at El Paso? Well, I
went over there to Jesus and Mary Academy. They
taught more Spanish than you. They did, more
Spanish than me. Well, this was a private school
that you went to. So you were actually educated in
both languages. Oh, yes. How long did you go to
school? 12 years. You went through high school.
Yes, all my grades over there. What did you do after
you got out of school? I worked. You worked? Where
did you work? Well, I started working over here at
the, what was it? It was a little store in Norbury.
Glass of Pearl? Glass of Pearl Bookie. Glass of
Pearl Shop. And then I got married, and then he
wouldn't let me go to work. Oh, here I am. I'm home.
No, she insisted. I insisted. You insisted? Yeah.
Every year a kid, how could I go to work? So, no. No, I
like staying home with all my kids. All right. Now,
we sort of cut off your story in the middle and
changed over. So, what... Oh, I know. Okay, your
father, when we stopped, your father had gone back
to Mexico, and this was in 19... Is he 50? Well, he
went back to Mexico. Actually, he went back to
Mexico when I was 14 years old. That would be back
in, what would it be, 19... Well, what year were you
born? Well,
what year were you born? 1918. Oh, that's right.
You'd be in the 30s. You'd be about 1932. Had he ever
become an American citizen? No. My mother did. My
mother did, because she always loved the United
States. I don't know why, but she was very happy
here. In fact, she said to Mexico, I'll never go.
She went to visit your aunt in Chihuahua. She
didn't visit Mexico, but that's all she did. In
Mexico City. But to live, she never lived in
Mexico. No, she liked it. Now, her family, her
sisters and brothers stayed in Mexico. Yes, they
did. In fact, they still live in Chihuahua. She's
got a brother and her sister. They're pretty old
now, a couple of ages. And they raised their
children in Mexico. What did their children do?
Actually, I haven't kept in touch with them. I
don't know, but I used to go on vacations.
Chihuahua. Somehow,
they always worked in bars, I think, or something
like that.
They would travel around the country. What they
did, I don't know. I really don't know. I don't
think anybody... Well, Francisco, I think he
worked for the government. The government of
Mexico. Yeah, he worked for the government. In
fact, he's sort of a sheriff or what do you call it? A
police official in some little town south of
Chihuahua. And he's, what kin is he to you? He's my
cousin. He's your cousin on your mother's side. On
my mother's side, yes. And he's about the only one
that has a steady job. He's had a steady job here, I
can remember. But the other ones have a little
store. Who was it?
Luis. Well, he had a bar. A restaurant? No,
Enrique. Enrique, Enrique. Oh, he was a bar owner
of a restaurant. Something like that. Maybe I'd
better draw them down, too. Let's see, your
mother's name was? Nicolasa. Nicolasa.
And she was from Zacatecas, Zacatecas. And then
how many brothers and sisters did she have? Well,
it's Aurelio and Rosa. Those are sisters? Brother
and sister. OK, Aurelio. Aurelio's a brother, and
Rosa's her sister. And that was it. That was all.
And they both married. And Aurelio had some
children. Oh, he's got about 12 kids, I think. Now,
where did they live? Where did Aurelio live? They
came to Chihuahua. When they came to Chihuahua,
they all stayed at Chihuahua. Oh, all of your
mother's family came to Chihuahua together?
Yeah, after the capture of Zacatecas, they left
Zacatecas because it was... Well, they were
peaceful people and they didn't like, uh... Uh...
So they were, you know, the lot they were going
through in Zacatecas. And the way that my mother
told me... You see, my grandmother's sister, my
grandmother's sister was in Chihuahua. Mm-hmm.
And they were riding to each other. And then my
mother, my grandmother's sister... sent for her,
she says, why don't you come over and see if you like
this thing, Chihuahua. And you can bring the
family if you like it. Well, what was your
grandmother's name? Jesus. Jesus or Jesusa?
Jesus. Well, Jesus, Jesusita, or Jesusa. And your
grandfather's name on your mother's side was?
Guadalupe. Guadalupe. Hasso. Hasso.
H-A-S-S-O? J-A-S-S-O. J-A-S-S-O. Do you know
what he did in Zacatecas before he had to leave?
Well, he had a... He was a blacksmith by trade. He
had a shop there, a blacksmith's shop. He was doing
very well, but like I say, they didn't like the
way... I mean, they were... The life they were
going through because of the soldiers and all
that, you know, barring the girls and all that.
This was your... This is the blacksmith. All
right. This is the blacksmith, the blacksmith
Guadalupe. And he was part Indian. And his wife was
Espanol. And she was from a Zacatecas family too.
And then he was a blacksmith and doing very well in
Zacatecas. And oh, you said your mother was listed
in the birth records as a mestiza. So they were
still listing people that way. Yeah, they were
listing people that way. They don't do that
anymore. No, they don't. I don't do that. They
don't do that anymore. And
so their children were already fairly
well-grown. Yes. Yes, they were well-grown. In
fact, my uncle, he was learning the trade. Your
uncle? Yes, Aurelio. Aurelio was learning to be a
blacksmith. Blacksmith, yes.
In fact, I think that's the work he did all his life.
Oh, thank you. When he came to Chihuahua, he got a
job with a railroad. He worked for the railroad.
Oh, that's good. Start ducking it.
I was just reading about the taking of Zacatecas
and apparently it was really terrible. It was. The
way my mother tells me that the federal forces in
Zacatecas had told the people that Dictate could
never be captured. It could never be captured. It
was well fortified. And my mother tells me that
about 10 o'clock in the morning He's starting to
hear the people at the IVN and IVN, and here they
come, see. And just the advance troops of Villa
were starting to attack. And my mother-in-law
said, first it was just a cannon roar, then machine
gun, and then in about an hour or so, he said, you can
distinguish a bullet from a cannon, just like a...
a pot of boiling frijoles, you know, just a boiling
kettle. That's the way it did here, you know, and
then pretty soon all the government forces were
falling back. They were being defeated, you know,
and the VF forces were breaking through. And she
remembers that the poor federal soldiers were
shedding their uniforms and asking the people for
clothes, you know, because they knew that they
were going to get killed, you know, and they got
captured. And so, he said it didn't take too long
before the force of it was running through the
streets, yelling and shooting and everything.
And it was just a terrible thing. How old was she at
that time? I don't really know, but I think she was
in her 20s. I think she was.
Did she say what her family did? Did they lock up
their house or what? Yeah, they stayed indoors for
I don't know how many days. And they didn't stay too
long in Zacatecas when my grandmother's aunt
wrote her and told her. She couldn't stand it
anymore, but come to Chihuahua and see how they
liked it. They could stay there. And they went to my
grandmother's... and stayed there for a while,
and they found a home. They found a place to live.
My aunt, she was younger, a lot younger than my
mother. I think she was, oh, about 10 or 15 years
younger. And
she started working in a clothes factory, and then
my mother started working at the How had your aunt
happened to go to Chihuahua in the first place? My
grandmother's aunt? My grandmother's aunt? I
don't know. I really don't know how she come to be in
Chihuahua at that time. But anyway, she was there,
and your parents went and joined her. And were your
great-grandparents still alive at that time? No,
I
don't
remember.
I don't think so. The only, on my great
grandparent's side that I got to know because she
was very old. Your abuelita. No, no. Sister to my
great-grandmother. In other words, my
grandmother, my grandmother's sister.
She was an aunt to my grandmother. An aunt to your,
yeah. Yeah, she was real old. Yeah, she was big. I
remember the first time we went there in 1929,
1930, I saw her. And where did you visit her? In
Chihuahua City. In Chihuahua City. Well, maybe
your mother's family was from Chihuahua
originally, before she married your father. No,
she was from Zacatecas. No, she was from
Zacatecas. From Zacatecas, your mother. I'll
tell you why, because my father, I remember he used
to kill my mother, because the people from
Zacatecas, they have a... The way people
speak, you know. They can tell people from
Zacatecas right away. Once they hear him speak,
you know. And for years and years and years, even
after she was living here, my mother would... Have
you been to Mexico City? Oh, yes. Oh, it's lovely.
I've been to Zacatecas, too. I love Zacatecas.
It's gorgeous. All right, let's see. This is
fascinating. It is, it is. Isn't it interesting?
Wonder, do you know, did you ever hear, was your
father with Villa when Zacatecas was attacked? I
don't know. That would be very interesting if he
was. Very interesting. That would have been very
interesting. Because he wasn't around. Your
father wasn't around always with him. And Villa
took many of his, he used most of his army. And he was
a very good friend of Villa. Oh, he always had his
picture. I mean, well, I shouldn't have given it
away, but I didn't care. A friend of my father's,
you know, when he learned that my father had died,
he says, your father promised me a Pancho Villa's
picture. I said, okay, you can have it. So I gave it
to him. But, you know, it was something I should
have kept.
My mother, she always was afraid of bees, and she
hated bees. And she married one. Did they ever? She
always told me, you know, I guess she used to say,
God punished me. I always hated bees, and I had to
marry one.
Now, I don't know the truth. I think she told
Bertha. She never told me, but before I married my
father, she was, I don't know, she was maybe in love
with a telegraph operator, and he got killed by the
police or something like that. That's probably
why she hated him. Was that in Zacatecas or in
Zacatecas? It was in Zacatecas. He may have been
killed during the battle. And that would have been
the Battle of Zacatecas, I believe, was in 1913. So
that's when they left and went to Chihuahua, where
she had the sister who could help her. And they
began to work and do whatever they could, because
she was working in a hospital. And it was when she
was working in a hospital that your father was
brought in with a bullet in his leg. And he was
brought in from Celaya. And that was probably the
Battle of Celaya, which would have been in... No, I
don't know what year it was at that time. The Battle
of Celaya was in 1915. Would that be the right date?
Yeah, I think... I don't know. Yeah, I have it here
on the... My tía Rosa, she married a villista, too.
You think she was? Yeah, and he was in the hospital,
too. And she had been working in the clothing
factory, but she met this Villista. What was his
name, her husband's name? Luis Gonzalez. Luis. He
was a major in the Villas Army. And he also got
wounded in that Battle of Celaya. They were both
lucky to be alive at all, because I don't know how
many thousands of Villistas were killed at
Celaya. It was terrible. And that... I think, I'm
not quite sure, but I think they were friends
there. And I think
my
father, I think he introduced Luis to my aunt. And
after they married, he didn't have to leave. Did he
have to leave Luis Gonzalez and Rosa? They stayed
in Chihuahua. They stayed in Chihuahua, that's
right. So they weren't in danger, or did they have
to hide when the Villistas were being rounded up?
No, because, I mean, after he left Don Luis, I mean,
he was at peace, in other words. Mm-hmm. He
probably, I don't think he let anybody know if he
was a Villista or not. Uh-huh. See? But... but like
my mother used to call the same mother it was all
your fault you know just yeah yeah i'm very proud of
my beast and all that oh we talk too much yeah yeah
but you but his friend your your uncle uh or your
man's husband luis gonzalez kept his mouth shut
now what kind of work did he do after he became at
peace Well, I think he had a... Well, he started
bars. He had the two bars in Chihuahua. He was
doing... He was doing very well. Yeah, he was doing
very well. So he didn't have to leave. They just
left him alone because nobody remembered who he
was. That's right. And then he had... How many
children did he have? Oh, let me see. Oh. And
they
all Are they the bunch that you were talking about
that you think just stayed in the bar business?
Yes. And they still have, do they still have bars in
Chihuahua? I think so. I haven't kept in touch with
them for, I don't know, for about the last 10 years.
I don't really know. In Francisco, did you put
Pancho in? Yeah, Pancho. Pancho is the one that he
sent. Yeah, he's a... He's a big shot over there in
Chihuahua. Yeah, yeah. He's the one that's...
He's a police officer down in some... Secret
service or something like that. He's not... Yeah,
well, he's something, some kind of an official, I
don't know. Something big.
Okay, I have Armando, Luis, Enrique, Marta,
Francisco. And Rosa. Rosa. And they all married
in... Yes. Well, let's see. Rosa's dead. Rosa's
dead. Let's see. Armando's married. He's got a
bunch of kids. He's even a grandfather by now, I
think. And this is Luis. Luis never married. No, ni
Enrique. Enrique never married. Obaldo? Married
and divorced. And Marta married and divorced.
Yeah, that's the way it goes. Do you know where Luis
Gonzalez was from originally? Durango. From
Durango. From Durango, yes. And he settled in
Chihuahua. Yes. And then the other... Harilio,
who was a blacksmith, had 12 kids, and they're all
in Chihuahua, too. And you don't know what they do?
No, the boys, I don't know what they do. You went to
see them last time, about... The last time I went
was at Chihuahua's room on Friday night. Oh, that
was about 10 years ago, when he died in Chihuahua.
And...
A few years? 63? No, but my father died. Wasn't it?
53. Oh, 50, 20 years. Yeah. 20 years. But your aunt
has... Well, she's been here. She's been here.
Have you ever thought about moving back to Mexico?
Oh, no. What for? Oh,
no. What is your impression of Mexico? How do you
feel about it? No, it's all right, I guess, for some
people. Vacations? Mm-hmm. Just... Staying over
there, our kids are used to here in El Paso. Now, if
they want to, they can travel. You know, my kids,
every time we put a horse in a car or something like
that, as soon as we call the cops, I mean, now we're
breathing fresh air. So your kids like Mexico? No,
no. When they cross here. No, when they cross back.
When they cross back. They're glad that we're
here. Because they have that impression, Juarez,
it's something like Mexico. You're wrong. They
haven't been to Mexico City. You're wrong. Mexico
City is not like this at all. Well, there's some
parts. They're like that. But Mexico City,
Monterrey, Guadalajara, Every place you go, it's
different. When did you go down there? No, I keep
going down there. When was it? About two years ago,
was I in Mexico City with Teresa? My daughter,
Teresa, she got on vacation in Mexico City. San
Luis Potosí. I don't like to travel. I don't know.
In fact, we want him to go see Bertha now. In College
Station? Yes. And so far. And so far. I've been
going every year now. Every time that she has the
babies, I've been going over there with Bertha.
Now, I didn't find out, oh, that's what I wanted to
know. What did your mother do after your father
left and went back to Mexico? How did she make a
living for your brothers and sisters? Well, she
had a hard time, very hard time. She worked most of
her life working the laundries.
And how many brothers and sisters did you have?
Well, only the youngest lived. Oh, that's right.
And you started working. That's why I had to leave
school. I couldn't see my mother. When did you
leave school? My first year of high school. And
then what did you do? I went to work. What sort of
work? Well, I started labor. At that time, they had
this Civilian Conservation Corps, the CCCs. I
stayed there for three years. left and worked
there at Beaumont Hospital for another three
years. Then I went to the service, came out of the
service, went to work for Southern Pacific.
Worked there for about six months and then I got my
job at Munson and I've been there since then. What
do you do there? Well, I work at a department. I'm
sort of a sporting goods clerk, you know. Oh, that
sounds interesting. Take care of the sporting
department there in Clemson. And did you, when you
were a child, did your family speak Spanish or did
they? They always did. They always did speak
Spanish and that's how I learned Spanish. I
learned to read and write just by Reading
newspapers, you know. In Spanish. In Spanish,
yeah. But you learned just English. Just English,
that's right. You went to school here in El Paso.
And your brother, your living brother, what...
Well, he was, after he left school, it was during
the war, he went to the Navy, got out of the Navy, and
then came out of the Navy, got married, Lived for a
few years and he died. Now what was his name?
Rodolfo. Rodolfo.
And did he have any children? Two. Two? Yeah. One
they named Rodolfo and the other one Roberto. And
what do they do? We haven't heard from them for a
long, long time. I think they're in school,
college or something. I don't know. Where do they
live? Dallas, Texas, or Irvin? Yeah, Irvin,
Texas. Irvin. Irvin, Texas. So your brother went
on up to Dallas. Yes. Then on your father's side of
the family, he had brothers and sisters too. Yes.
He was the black sheep, I think. He was the black
sheep. Let's see, the youngest was Wenceslado.
And then there was Manuel.
And my Tia Rosa and my father.
And where did, now your father's parents were
from, I know I've got this on tape, but I've
forgotten right now. Valle de Allende. Valle de
Allende. Chihuahua. Chihuahua. And they were
farmers. They were farmers. What was your
grandfather's name? Wenceslado. Wenceslado.
and your grandmother's name. But you know, what
was her name? I
don't remember. Lupe? No, no, no, no. No, that was
your grandmother.
What was her name? I forgot now. I can't remember.
It doesn't matter. Rosa, did Rosa marry? No, not on
my father's side. Not on your father's side. She
never married? Never married, no. And what about
Manuel? He did marry. And where does, is he still
living? No, he's in New Hampshire. And where did he
live, though, didn't he? In Juarez. In Juarez? He
always stayed in Juarez, he did. In fact, all of my
brothers and sisters stayed in New Mexico. And his
children, are they in Juarez, Manuel's children?
Yes. How many does he have?
I
don't know, five, let's see. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I
had one cousin that came to the United States, and
they never heard of him again. It was Manuel . And
there was . And all the other state in Mexico. And
what about? Wenceslao? Wenceslao Junior. He
stayed in Juarez. I think he came to the United
States for several years because he learned to
speak English. Oh, yes, he did. And his job in
Juarez was the city guide or something like that.
He used to make a living out of taking people.
Taking the tourists around. That's right. Yeah,
he was a city guide or something like that. And he
married? He married, yes. And had? Oh, let me see.
He had Antonio... Concepcion,
Paula, Refugio, and that's it? Four? Four. And I
think Paula and, are they here in El Paso? Yeah,
Paula, do you know El Paso? No. Antonio died in El
Paso.
Antonio died. Because I think, you see, I don't
remember now, I don't know for sure, but I think my
two men made it, and my two ones, they came to the
United States and lived in Colorado and
California, some of them, for several years, and
then they went back to Mexico. That's right. When
did they come to the United States? I think it was
the 1920s.
I know that Antonio, my cousin, died last year or
two years ago. He was born in Colorado. He was older
than you, wasn't he? No, he wasn't. Do you remember
why they came? Did they come because of the
revolution or they just came for work? I don't
know. I think they were just looking for work.
Whatever happened to your grandfather's lands at
Valladolid?
Oh, I don't know. My father told me one time that
they left them to one of the relatives and they
never claimed them back or anything like that.
They just, you know, moved out and never went back
again. And this was in the 1920s and then they
eventually settled down in Juarez. Because
you're my grandfather. He died here in El Paso, my
grandfather. He did? Yeah, on my father's side. He
died here in El Paso.
I don't know if I'll ever
be keeping this. I don't know. Now, let's see what
happened to your children.
Who was he? That
was
my grandmother that my father sent. Oh, I sense
him.
Was she also from Valle de Allende? Yes. In fact,
the sad part of this, the thing that they tell me,
well, my father never admitted it, but my
grandmother died of a heart attack because she
was, when my father got wounded, he got pretty
sick, she got a heart attack and she never
recovered, or she recovered in any way, he never
saw her again. while he was in the hospital, see?
And he used to tell me that, I guess my father didn't
care to ask about his mother, and I really don't
know because one time he told me that he was out with
some friends of his, you know, cronies, And one of
them said, well, what are you talking about? You
don't even have a mother. What do you mean I don't
have a mother? Well, why don't you ask your father?
Sure, my mother's alive. She's been dead for a year
now. He didn't even know about it. And then he told
me my father went over to my grandfather's house
and got him up in the middle of the night. And my
grandfather, he said, well, yeah, I'll wake him
tomorrow morning. I'll show you the grave and all
that. No, you show it to me right now. Don't bother
me. Try to get him out of the house. And they tell me
that my father got the gun out. He threatened my
grandfather's life. He said, you show it to me
right now or I'm going to kill you. Now, where was
this? In Chihuahua. In Chihuahua. Your
grandfather was in Chihuahua by that time. My
grandfather had to get up in the middle of the
night, take him over to the cemetery, and show him
where his mother was buried. And this was before he
left for El Paso, before he had to leave for El Paso.
And how had your grandfather and grandmother
happened to come to Chihuahua from Valle de
Allende? Well, I don't know. I think that,
I don't remember. I've never heard of it. But I just
assumed that they had been following my father. I
don't know. I never did find out. I was wondering if
maybe there was trouble with the revolutionary
soldiers in the area where they were trying to
farm. The people always come into the because of
the soldiers that caused the revolution because
they were tearing up the place apart. So it's down
to the south, to the southeast.
Did anything happen, do you ever hear about the
Battle of Parral? No. No, I never heard of that, the
Battle of Parral, but that's where the... They
used to mention Parral and Santa Rosalia, which
they call it Camargo now, but my father always
called it Santa Rosalia.
I think they even had relatives there, I'm pretty
sure, because on my father's side, it was a minus.
The governor reminded us, remember he had a
brother, and his brother, or my father, he always
called him cousin. Whether it were cousins or not,
I don't know. But I know that we do have relatives
with the last name Mike. Even here, they came to El
Paso, or somewhere in El Paso, I don't know where.
But they had relatives all over the Parrales,
Santa Rosalina. Do you know when that family came
north to take up land there?
May have been in the 1700s, perhaps. Very early.
And then spread out, and that's why there would be
all those cousins all over. Now, what I didn't find
out about was your children. Let's see, which one
is your oldest? We'll see if we remember. We'll
see.
And is he married? No, no. No. What does he do? He's
going to, he said, last year of college. Last year
of college, yeah. Where is he going to college?
UCAP. UCAP. Oh, oh, here, here. And then he lives at
home. Oh, no, he just moved out. He just moved out.
Near the college. Near the college. He and another
son of ours. What's he studying? He wants to be a
lawyer. And
then your next child is? Maria Teresa.
Maria Teresa. Mm-hmm. And is she married? No,
she's not. And what does she do? She works with Dr.
Mann. Hi, Doctor. Does she live here? Yes, yes. At
home? Yes, ma'am. And then the next child?
Natalicia. Mrs. Carpenter. And she's married?
Oh, yes. Two kids. Two little girls. Beautiful.
These your first grandchildren? Yes, they are.
And then there's? Alfredo. Alfredo. He's going to
college. What's he studying? I read it, don't you?
Teacher. Teacher.
And then there's... Johnny. Johnny.
He's his first year. I don't know what's his... Are
they still living at home? Yes.
And then... Concha. Concha. She goes to Osprey
High School. She's in Julia. And? Luis Antonio.
Goes to Osprey his first year. And then Georgie.
He's in elementary school. How old is he? Twelve.
He's one year older than my daughter. Is that
right? And then I have Cecilia. Cecilia, she goes
to school, grade school. She's in fifth grade.
And then I have three miscarriages, so that's 12.
12.
My tape is done.
And you go back to Mexico every so often? Or you go to
Mexico every so often? Yes, I do. Yes, I do. Well, I
have my relatives over there in Mexico. So do I, but
I don't know. But you like to travel, and I do, I do
like to travel.
So once in a while, I go. Every year, every two
years, we go to Mexico. But you say your children
don't like it? They don't. But have they ever been,
any of your children, south of Chihuahua? Maria
Teresa. Maria Teresa. Maria Teresa. Before, been
to Mexico City. The other ones, no. Concha, just to
Chihuahua. Chihuahua.